
Meanwhile, MACC Chief Commissioner, Tan Sri Azam Baki when contacted to confirm the matter said, the investigation was focused on Section 23 of the MACC Act 2009 regarding the offence of misuse of power to obtain bribes and the offence of money laundering under Section 4 (1) AMLATFPUAA 2001.
The source added that MACC had also recorded the testimony of about 14 witnesses in the past few weeks, including business figures and former senior ministers related to the confidential documents revealed by the Pandora Papers.
Among the names mentioned in the Pandora Papers were former finance minister Tun Daim Zainuddin, Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Zahid Hamidi, International Trade and Industry Minister Tengku Datuk Seri Zafrul Abdul Aziz and Selayang MP William Leong.
For the first 10 charges, Madani was charged with indirectly engaging in transactions involving proceeds of unlawful activities through his lawyers, Norizan & Associates's Hong Leong Islamic Bank account, amounting to RM1 million.
As for the remaining charges, Madani was accused of receiving fees through illegal transactions amounting to RM19,000 from Trillion Cove Holdings Bhd, on each charge, accrued from the purchase of RM1 million worth of Redeemable Preference Shares-i.
The charges are under Section 4(1)b of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001 (AMLA).
He faces up to 15 years' jail and a fine of at least five times the sum obtained from money laundering or RM5 million, whichever is higher, upon conviction.
Malaysia Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) deputy public prosecutor Noor Syafina Mohd Radzuan proposed RM300,000 bail with one surety.
Najib, 70, was jailed 12 years and fined RM210 million after he was found guilty by the Kuala Lumpur High Court on July 28, 2020, of three counts of criminal breach of trust and three counts of money laundering of RM42 million of SRC funds.
He was also convicted of abusing his power with regards to the RM4 billion Retirement Fund Inc (KWAP) loan, which the cabinet approved via a government guarantee in two meetings that he chaired in August 2011 and March 2012.
The three were jointly charged with 37 counts of money laundering involving cash and bank savings amounting to RM61.57 million, as well as unlawful possession of luxury goods between October and November 2016.
Najib, 69, is facing four charges of using his position to obtain bribes totalling RM2.3 billion from 1MDB funds and 21 charges of money laundering involving the same amount.
He is currently serving a prison sentence after the Federal Court upheld his conviction and sentences of 12 years' jail and a RM210 million fine after being found guilty of embezzling RM42 from SRC International Sdn Bhd.
On trial were Ag Tahir, his wife Fauziah Piut, and Lim. They were jointly tried on 37 counts of money laundering charges involving cash and bank savings of RM61.57 million, as well as unlawful possession of luxury goods.
"She was arrested on Friday, and the police remand was obtained on Saturday. She was arrested under Section 409 of the Penal Code for criminal breach of trust."
In 2018, Low, alongside four others linked to the scandal — Loo, Terence Geh, Casey Tang Keng Chee and Eric Tan Kim Loong — were charged in absentia at the Putrajaya and Kuala Lumpur magistrate's courts over money-laundering cases linked to the 1MDB scandal.
Loo was charged with two counts of laundering more than US$6 million received in a Swiss account she controlled on Dec 6, 2012 and July 1, 2014.
This is believed to be a portion of the funds diverted from the first two 1MDB bond offerings underwritten by Goldman Sachs.
On Jan 20, the High Court allowed the government and a bank to forfeit one property, two luxury vehicles and RM22,600 in cash belonging to Loo.
The forfeiture application was filed in November 2021 under Section 56 of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing, and Proceeds of Unlawful Activity Act 2001.
"The MACC is obtaining information on an international syndicate suspected of bribing officers in order to smuggle pangolin scales, and engaging in money laundering.
"Through Op Jaguar, the MACC has also recorded statements from individuals, and conducted searches at related premises.
Prior to this, MACC's Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Division had arrested four individuals in relation to an international syndicate smuggling pangoline scales and money laundering.
The case will be investigated under Section 17(a) of the Malaysian Anti-corruption Act 2009 and Section 4(1) of the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Financing Act 2001.
On July 14, MACC busted an international syndicate suspected of bribing law enforcement officers to smuggle pangolin scales, as well as engaging in money laundering.
MACC's Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Division raided premises in Klang, Selangor, and Kuala Lumpur where they seized almost two tonnes of animal scales worth about RM23.4 million and several luxury vehicles linked to the syndicate.
Judge Datuk Anita Harun also discharged and acquitted M. Pathmarajah of eight counts of abetting to forge and using fake sale and purchase agreements (predicate charges).
On April 7, 2021, Pathmarajah was charged with nine counts of receiving, transferring, and using RM6.5 million in funds allegedly derived from illegal activities.
All the charges were framed under Subsection 4(1)(a) of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001.
The three offences were framed under Section 113(1)(a) of the Income Tax Act 1967 which carries a sum of fine of between RM1,000 and RM10,000, and special penalty of twice the amount of underpaid tax, upon conviction.
He was also charged with one count of failing to declare RM444,474 income for tax returns for the year 2016 on May 16, 2017.
The offence fell under Section 112(1) of the same act that carries an amount of fine of between RM200 and RM20,000 as well as no more than six months' jail term or both upon conviction.
Apart from these charges, Liow previously faced four counts of having direct involvement in transactions involving proceeds from illegal activities amounting to RM779,894.95 under Section 4(1) (a) of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001 (AMLA).
The operation had crippled a corruption syndicate, cases of breach of trust, smuggling of illegal goods and invalid tax reduction.
The police, Immigration Department, Customs, Bank Negara Malaysia, the Inland Revenue Board and Cyber Security Malaysia were also involved.
The suspects were said to be detained at their respective homes early Monday morning in a joint operation with the police, Inland Revenue Board, Bank Negara, Customs and Immigration Department, among others.
Zahid, 70, is facing 47 charges of criminal breach of trust, graft and money laundering involving YAB funds.
Two familiar names stand out: fugitive businessman Low Taek Jho, better known as Jho Low, wanted for defrauding and misappropriating billions from the now-disgraced 1MDB, a strategic development company that sank under burdensome corruption, bribery and money-laundering.
Loo's name was heavily mentioned during Najib's ongoing corruption trial for allegedly misappropriating RM2.3 billion from 1MDB.
It was reported that Loo was among the proxies working with fugitive businessman Low Taek Jho, better known as Jho Low, to misappropriate millions of ringgit from the sovereign state fund.
Najib, 70, is facing four charges of using his position to obtain bribes totalling RM2.3 billion from 1MDB funds and 21 charges of money laundering involving the same amount.
The charge is framed under Section 4(1)(b) of the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001.
The offence under AMLATFPUAA carries a jail term not exceeding 15 years' and a fine of at least five times the sum obtained from money laundering or RM5 million, whichever is higher, upon conviction.
Muhyiddin was charged with four counts of using his position as the Prime Minister and Bersatu president to ask RM200 million as a bribe from Bukhary Equity Sdn Bhd at the Prime Minister's Department Complex, Federal Government Administrative Centre, Putrajaya between February 8 and 25, 2021.
He was also accused of committing the same offence at the same location, by asking RM32.5 million from Nepturis Sdn Bhd, Mamfor Sdn Bhd and Azman Yusoff for a bribe for the party between March 1 and August, 2020.
The four charges were framed under Section 23(1) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) Act 2009 which carries a maximum 20 years of jail time, or a fine of five times the value of the money solicited, or RM10,000, whichever higher.
He was then charged with one more count of receiving RM5 million funds, from Bukhary Equity Sdn Bhd, that were proceeds from unlawful activities on Jan 7 last year.
The funds were credited into the party's Ambank bank account. He was accused of committing the offence at Ambank Amcorp Mall branch, Jalan Persiaran Barat, Petaling Jaya, here.
The charges were framed under Section 4(1)(b) of the AMLATFPUAA. 
The offence under AMLATFPUAA carries a jail term not exceeding 15 years and a fine of at least five times the sum obtained from money laundering or RM5 million, whichever is higher, upon conviction.
Today, Muhyiddin was discharged and acquitted on all four charges of abuse of power in the Jana Wibawa case.
The prosecution was carried out under Section 23(1) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) Act 2009, which can be punished under Section 24(1) of the same act.
This section provides for a maximum imprisonment of 20 years and a fine of not less than five times the amount or value of the gratification that is the subject of the offence, if the gratification can be valued in money terms, or RM10,000, whichever is higher.
For the CBT charges, Zahid was alleged to have used the funds to make six payments for his personal credit card usage, insurance policy and licence for his personal vehicles, remittances to a law firm and contributions to the Royal Malaysia Police Football Association.
This is believed to be a portion of the funds diverted from the first two 1MDB bond offerings underwritten by Goldman Sachs.
On Jan 20, the High Court allowed the government and a bank to forfeit one property, two luxury vehicles and RM22,600 in cash belonging to Loo.
Najib, 70, is facing four charges of using his position to obtain bribes totalling RM2.3 billion from 1MDB funds and 21 charges of money laundering involving the same amount.
"All registered organisations should ensure that all activities and governance comply with the law including the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorist Financing and Proceeds from Illegal Activities Act 2001 (AMLATFPUAA).
According to him, the commission had devised a technique for investigating high-profile cases involving people in positions or high-ranking individuals using the Intelligence-Based Investigations (IBI) method.
On MACC's accomplishments in 2022, Azam said a total of 820 investigation papers involving corruption and abuse of power were opened, with 766 or 93.41 per cent of the cases being resolved within the year.
During that period, a total of 909 individuals were arrested, including 323 civil servants, while the rest were from the private sector, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), the general public, and others," he said.
In terms of asset recovery, Azam said the total amount of assets that were forfeited last year was RM149,695,341.49, with compounds totalling RM44,454,800 issued under Section 92(1) of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act (AMLATFPUAA) 2001.
The highest contributor to the confiscated amount was from Ops 1MDB totalling RM64,386,825.68. This is a result of strategic cooperation between the MACC and other law enforcement agencies, including the US Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)," he added.
"The judge erred in terms of law and fact by failing to find that Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia (Bersatu) is an organisation as defined within the word 'associate' in Section 3 of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) Act. 
The charges were framed under Section 4(1)(b) of the AMLATFPUAA.
The offence under AMLATFPUAA carries a jail term not exceeding 15 years and a fine of at least five times the sum obtained from money laundering or RM5 million, whichever is higher, upon conviction.
This followed the Kuala Lumpur High Court decision on the same day to sentence him to seven years' jail and two strokes of the cane for charges of abetting criminal breach of trust (CBT), misappropriation of property and two counts of money laundering. 
On April 10, Azlan was charged with submitting false claims for accommodation and flight tickets to London, United Kingdom for five years.  
Azlan had submitted false claims amounting to between RM230,230 and RM253,195 to the Perlis government for the period of five years, despite not making the travels.  
All charges were framed under Section 18 of the MACC Act 2009 for submitting or certifying a document containing false details.  
The offences are punishable under Section 24(2) of the same Act, which carries a jail term of up to 20 years and fine of not less than five times the amount of the false claims.  
Two days later, he was charged again with receiving a total of RM1.06 million, believed to be proceeds from illegal activities in multiple transactions between February 2014 and December 2017  
The offences fall under Section 4(1)(b) of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act (AMLATFPUAA) 2001.  
It carries up to 15 years jail and a fine of at least five times the sum obtained from money laundering or RM5 million, whichever is higher, upon conviction.  
This morning, the Kuala Lumpur High Court found Syed Saddiq, 30, guilty and sentenced him to seven years of imprisonment, a RM10 million fine and two strokes of the cane for all charges of abetting in criminal breach of trust, misappropriation of funds and money laundering
The High Court sentenced him to a three-year jail term and one stroke of the cane for abetting criminal breach of trust (CBT) involving RM1 million of the Bersatu Youth (Armada)'s funds.
The former minister is also facing two years imprisonment and one stroke of the cane for misusing property for himself, namely RM120,000 from the Maybank Islamic Bhd account belonging to Armada Bumi Bersatu Enterprise.
Judge Datuk Azhar Abdul Hamid also imposed two years imprisonment and a fine of RM10 million in default four years for two money laundering charges.
However, Syed Saddiq is now safe from the sentence as the court allowed his application for a stay of execution pending appeal.
On July 22, 2021, Syed Saddiq was charged, as the then Parti Pribumi Bersatu Malaysia Armada wing chief who was entrusted with control of Armada funds, with abetting Bersatu assistant treasurer Rafiq Hakim Razalifor in committing criminal breach of trust (CBT) involving RM1 million of the organisation's funds.
He was also charged with misusing property for himself, namely RM120,000 from the Maybank Islamic Bhd account belonging to Armada Bumi Bersatu Enterprise, by causing Rafiq to dispose of the money.
In his other charges, he was guilty of two counts of money laundering in two transactions of RM50,000, believed to be proceeds of unlawful activities, from his Maybank Islamic Bhd account into his Amanah Saham Bumiputera account.
According to Section 289(c) of the Criminal Procedural Code (CPC), whipping is a mandatory sentence for criminal breach of trust charges with exceptions granted for special circumstances such as women and individuals aged 50 years and above.
Former prime minister Datuk Seri Najib Razak who was found guilty of the same charge of misappropriating funds belonging to SRC International Bhd, was spared from the whipping due to his age.
According to Section 288(3) of the CPC, a cane with a diameter exceeding half an inch is mandated for serious crimes.
Conversely, Section 288(4) of the same Code prescribes the use of a lighter cane for white collar offenders, akin to school discipline.
On October 17, the police arrested a co-founder and shareholder of an airline with the title 'Datuk' as well as his wife and son to assist in the investigation of a case under the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001.
The offences comes under Section 16(a) (A) of the MACC Act 2009 read with Section 28 (1)(c) and punishable under Section 24.
It carries a maximum 20-year jail term and a fine not more five times the sum of gratification or RM10,000, whichever higher, for each charge.
Wan Saiful claimed trial to 18 charges of money laundering amounting to RM5.59 million at the Sessions Court here today.
The Tasek Gelugor member of Parliament pleaded not guilty after all the charges were read to him in front of Judge Suzana Hussin.
Wan Saiful was charged under Section 4(1)(b) Anti-Money Laundering Act, which was read together with Section 87(1)(a) under the same Act.
Adam Radlan is accused of using RM500,000 from his CIMB Bank account between December 2021 and February 2022 at the bank's Bukit Tunku branch. The alleged offence occurred between December 2021 and February 2022.
The charge falls under Section 4(1)(b) of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing, and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001
If convicted, Adam Radlan could face a prison term of up to 15 years and a fine equal to at least five times the value of the proceeds involved, or RM5 million, whichever is higher.
Wan Saiful was charged under Section 4(1)(b) Anti-Money Laundering Act, which was read together with Section 87(1)(a) under the same Act.
According to the charges, Wan Saiful, as the director of the WSA Advisory Group Sdn Bhd, was charged with transferring funds worth a total of RM1.66 million believed from illegal proceeds to several companies and individuals, including to a car dealership to buy Ford Ranger worth RM78,800, as well as RM180,000 to the National Sports Council (NSC), RM38, 160 to Sinar Karangkraf Sdn Bhd and several others, between Aug 12 and Nov 13, last year.
Based on the charges, Wan Saiful was accused of soliciting money from Lian Tan Chuan as an incentive to assist Nepturis Sdn Bhd in obtaining the Central Spine Road: East Coast Expressway Intersection Qualification Project worth RM232 million from the government, in April last year, at the Royal Lake Club, Taman Tasik Perdana.
He was also accused of receiving a bribe of RM6.9 million through his company's CIMB Bank Berhad account, WSA Advisory Group Sdn Bhd, from the Maybank Islamic Berhad account of Nepturis Sdn Bhd.
The guidelines are issued by Mavcom pursuant to section 98A(1) of the Malaysian Aviation Commission Act 2015 (Act 771) where Mavcom carries out the assessment on the key responsible persons of an airline or aviation service company.
He said the case is being investigated under Section 420 of the Penal Code for cheating.
All three were detained to assist in an investigation under the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing, and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001.
Muhyiddin was charged with two counts of receiving RM195 million in funds that were proceeds from unlawful activities between Feb 25 and July 16, 2021, and Feb 8 till July 8 last year.
He was also charged with one count of receiving RM5 million in funds from Bukhary Equity Sdn Bhd, that were proceeds from unlawful activities on Jan 7 last year.
The charge is framed under Section 4(1)(b) of the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001 (AMLATFPUAA).
The offence under AMLATFPUAA carries a jail term not exceeding 15 years and a fine of at least five times the sum obtained from money laundering or RM5 million, whichever is higher, upon conviction.
According to the charge sheet, Nidarahayu was charged with 17 counts of transferring RM20,650.86 of illicit proceeds from her bank account near CIMB Bank Taman Maluri branch between Sept 15 and Oct 3, last year.
She also faces 13 similar charges of transferring RM184,985.46 of illicit proceeds to four companies and eight individuals at the same place and time.
She was charged under Section 4(1)(b) of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001.
It carries a maximum jail term of 15 years, a fine not less than five times the sum of the illegal activities or RM5 million, whichever is higher.
Meanwhile, Raibafie and Tengku Arif Bongsu were charged with receiving RM30,350 and RM25,000, respectively, from a company and Nidarahayu's account between Sept 29 and Oct 2, last year.
Deputy public prosecutor Rozaliana Zakaria asked the court to impose RM100,000 bail against Nidarahayu; and RM50,000 each for Raibafie and Tengku Arif.
The court set RM60,000 bail against Nidarahayu and RM20,000 each for the other two accused.
However, the trio is now under police custody as they have been denied bail for the kidnapping case, which is still awaiting trial.
They were charged under Section 3 of the Kidnapping Act which carries the death sentence or life imprisonment.
MYAirline major shareholder Datuk Allan Goh Hwan Hua was arrested on Tuesday, October 17, 2023 and remanded for four days. He is being investigated under the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001.
Gobind also submitted that Syed Saddiq's charge under Section 405 of the Penal Code for abetting Rafiq in criminal breach of trust involving the RM1 million in funds should be demolished, as the charge sheet explicitly states that Rafiq had acted dishonestly.
Zahid, who is the deputy prime minister, was granted by the High Court a DNAA of 12 criminal breach of trust charges, eight counts of bribery and 27 for money laundering, involving millions of ringgit belonging to Yayasan Akalbudi.
He was accused of committing the offences between March 28, 2016, and April 11, 2018.
He was charged on Oct 19, 2018, and was later ordered to enter his defence.
A DNAA means that the accused is discharged from the current charges without being acquitted of the charges.
Muhammad Yusof is charged under section 4(1)(b) of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing, and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001 and can be sentenced under the same section of the same act.
He faces imprisonment of up to 15 years and a fine not less than five times the amount or value of the proceeds of the unlawful activity or RM5 million, whichever is higher, if found guilty.
Mohd Yusri noted that the case is being investigated under Section 420 of the Penal Code.
Ong Kar Kian, also known as Ken Ong, engaged in violations under the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001 (AMLATFPUAA).
This case marks the initial legal action taken by the Securities Commission Malaysia (SC) against an individual who did not adhere to the SC's written directives issued pursuant to section 32(2)(a) of the AMLATFPUAA.
However, the Court of Appeal issued its verdict, which upheld the High Court's judgement to nullify the daily penalty of RM1,500 per day that had been imposed on Ken Ong by the trial judge on Sept 11, 2023.
On Feb 19, Ong was charged on three counts under section 32(8)(a) of the AMLATFPUAA for failing to comply with written orders to appear before an investigating officer of the SC to assist in a money laundering investigation.
On Sept 4, Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Hamidi was granted a discharge not amounting to acquittal (DNAA) of 12 criminal breach of trust (CBT) charges, eight counts of bribery and 27 for money laundering, involving scores of millions of ringgit belonging to Yayasan Akal Budi
Syed Saddiq said it was a form of protest against the decision to free Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid Hamidi from all corruption charges after he was granted a Discharge Not Amounting to Acquittal (DNAA) for 12 Criminal Breach of Trust (CBT) charges, eight counts of bribery and 27 for money laundering, which the Muar member of parliament (MP) said was a beginning to normalising corruption.
All charges were framed under Section 18 of the MACC Act 2009 for submitting or certifying a document containing false details. 
The offences are punishable under Section 24(2) of the same Act, which carries a jail term of up to 20 years and fine of not less than five times the amount of the false claims. 
Two days later, he was charged again with receiving a total of RM1.06 million, believed to be proceeds from illegal activities in multiple transactions between February 2014 and December 2017 
The offences fall under Section 4(1)(b) of the Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act (AMLATFPUAA) 2001. 
It carries up to 15 years jail and a fine of at least five times the sum obtained from money laundering or RM5 million, whichever is higher, upon conviction. 
On Monday, the Kuala Lumpur High Court granted Datuk Seri Dr Ahmad Zahid with a discharge not amounting to acquittal on 47 charges of corruption, breach of trust and money laundering involving Yayasan Akalbudi.
Inspector-General of Police Tan Sri Razarudin Husain said Loo was investigated under Section 409 of the Penal Code for criminal breach of trust by a public servant or agent.
Recently, Zahid was given a discharge not  amounting to acquittal (DNAA) follwing an application by the prosecution to discontinue the trial in line with the Attorney General's power under article 145 of the Federal Constitution and Section 254 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
